# Market-Segmentation-of-Costumer-data-Using-K Mean Clustering
Customer Segmentation is one the most important applications of unsupervised learning. Using clustering techniques, companies can identify the several segments of customers allowing them to target the potential user base. In this machine learning project, we will make use of K-means clustering which is the essential algorithm for clustering unlabeled dataset. Before ahead in this project, learn what actually customer segmentation is.
What is Customer Segmentation?
Customer Segmentation is the process of division of customer base into several groups of individuals that share a similarity in different ways that are relevant to marketing such as gender, age, interests, and miscellaneous spending habits.
What is K-Means Algorithm?
While using the k-means clustering algorithm, the first step is to indicate the number of clusters (k) that we wish to produce in the final output. The algorithm starts by selecting k objects from dataset randomly that will serve as the initial centers for our clusters. These selected objects are the cluster means, also known as centroids. Then, the remaining objects have an assignment of the closest centroid. This centroid is defined by the Euclidean Distance present between the object and the cluster mean. We refer to this step as “cluster assignment”. When the assignment is complete, the algorithm proceeds to calculate new mean value of each cluster present in the data. After the recalculation of the centers, the observations are checked if they are closer to a different cluster. Using the updated cluster mean, the objects undergo reassignment. This goes on repeatedly through several iterations until the cluster assignments stop altering. The clusters that are present in the current iteration are the same as the ones obtained in the previous iteration.
